# Weather Classification
This project focuses on classifying weather conditions from images using a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) built with TensorFlow/Keras.


## Table of contanct
- [Description](#description)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Dataset](#dataset)
- [Model](#model)
- [Results](#results)


## Description

This project involves:
- Loading and preprocessing weather images.
- Developing a CNN model using TensorFlow/Keras.
- Training the model on the weather dataset.
- Evaluating the model's performance.
- Visualizing results.

## Installation

To run this project, you'll need to install the following dependencies:

```bash
pip install numpy tensorflow matplotlib
```
## Usage
**1. Prepare the Dataset:**

  - Place your images into appropriate directories (e.g., sunny, rainy, cloudy). <br>


**2. Run the Notebook:**

  - Execute the notebook to preprocess the data, train the model, and evaluate its performance.<br>


**3. Model Visualization:**

  - View the plots generated by the notebook to understand the model's training process and results.


## Dataset
The dataset consists of weather images categorized into different conditions (e.g., sunny, rainy, cloudy).
Ensure your dataset follows the directory structure expected by the `ImageDataGenerator` in Keras.
For install dataset: https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/jehanbhathena/weather-dataset

## Model
The model is built using the following architecture:

 - Convolutional layers with activation functions (e.g., ReLU).
 - Pooling layers for downsampling.
 - Dense layers for classification.

## Results
The model's performance is visualized through accuracy and loss plots. Sample predictions on test images are also displayed.

